Pudding.
And then share this screen.
A new movie reference.
Ah. Basically behaviou if you.
Ah, just next to the lecture slides.
That link is a hyperlink
to Microsoft Stream,
so we upload all the recordings
in the Microsoft Stream.
So let me show you a.
So basically if you go to the lectures.
For instance, for like I mean
the week before eating week.
So these are the hyperlinks.
So if you click on them,
it opens and goes to democrasoft.
And then you have the. So these
are the hyperlink to Microsoft.
OK, uh, while others are joining
the class. If you have any question,
I'm ready to take your questions.
Actually, this is your uh,
assignment for the lab. Uh.
So basically you have to
wrap it inside parentheses.
And then put their dollar sign.
We will. We will release the key for.
Lab 4 uh, and then you'll you'll have.
I mean, you'll have the.
There are different methods,
I mean answers, but one or two
sample answers to the lab 4.
You can see how you can
install the output in the.
The script when you call a
function called the program.
Yes, it was today at 4:00 AM, yeah?
But I mean on Monday when we release
the marks, uh, we will release
the key as well so they script.
Then you can see the answer.
OK, we have 40 students in the class.
Seems we have a drop. After the
meter or a there are other exams.
Still so. That's a start.
Never mind that.
OK. So.
First of all, actually this is.
This is a. Although this movie,
I mean, as you can see in the title.
Uh, it's kind of, I mean in favor of men.
So it's it doesn't. Uh.
Consider, I mean, uh,
the feminist has a problem with
this movie and also in the content.
But I put this movie because of a concept
that we are going to discuss today.
At the end of at the ending slides.
But uh, this movie has a brilliant dialogue.
The famous scene you can't handle the truth.
And if you have time,
we will watch that scene.
Then you understand why I put this
movie reference for today's lecture.
Uh, before I start,
I just wanted to say that.
I mean I release the keys to the meter.
So if you go to the exam link you can see
two PDF files because we have we had.
Two versions of a midterm exam.
So based on the PDF file
number you can see the keys.
There are some shared question,
but there are some different questions.
So I suggest you to check the keys.
Uh, such that if you receive
the mark for your submissions,
then you can ask for review or
you can see that you expect what
the mark that you wanted or no.
And also we put a survey
right after the exam.
I intentionally put it after the
exam because I just wanted to know.
The exact feeling of you after the exam.
Uh, I'm not going to discuss the results,
but I just wanted to show quickly.
We have 72 responses so far.
Uh, let me I can put the link in
the chat box as well right now.
So if if you want to participate I mean
after the class or during the class,
you can go and participate.
So I put it in the chat box.
Uh, but here so far we have this result.
Next week I'm going to
discuss the results and.
Whatever related to the survey, but.
Quickly just go quickly
over that you can see that.
Seems uh exam was a little bit difficult.
It was not according to expectation.
Uh, also so far I mean.
Everybody is doing good.
Very few students actually.
Uh, we can.
I mean, these students can come to my
office and then we can discuss what's
going on and we can provide some solution.
Also about the worth taking this course.
Most of you think that it is.
Worth taking the scores and about
the difficulty of the coursework.
Most of you says it's OK.
Fuse as it's difficult,
but most of Europe is saying OK.
And in total you think that I mean
it's worth doing all this workload.
And about the marking.
Most of you think that amount
the markets are doing well.
Again,
some of you may not happy with the marking.
Again,
you can communicate with your lab instructor,
not the marker, the lab instructor.
And then all if your issue is not solved.
I mean you can communicate with me.
About BTS again.
Most of you are happy or satisfied
with the Jays and tears.
The lab instructors and the markers.
And.
Uhm, about my teaching.
Most of you there are some critics
that I'm going to go through
these during the weekend and then
we'll discuss this next week.
But you hopefully you see that there is a,
uh? A room to improve.
But I can see no, I mean awful.
That's a good sign, so it's still.
I hope that I can fix these problems.
OK,
so.
Uh-huh, yeah, I'll I'll answer
your question, I mean, uhm.
After after go through the some slides and
then I'll stop and then take your questions.
I'll answer that, yeah.
But do not forget your question.
So, and this is the survey we
did and today we continue the
our topic about file system.
How to do system called to the
file system of the kernel.
And the whole topics are found in
chapter three of the book file IO.
Still we are in File Manager or
file system part of the kernel.
We said that a defined system
has three abstract levels of.
I mean, three levels of abstractions.
High level which we are going to
work with this level of abstraction.
Basically we do system call to this level.
We have low level if you have time we made
touch on low level part of the file system.
And the device, which is the actual
physical level of the storage devices.
Hard disk drives, keyboard,
mouse as a physical device.
In this course we are not
going to talk about that.
I leave it for other courses,
for instance computer architecture or there
is another course called information.
His storage and retrieval.
Or in some schools it's called
a file structure.
In that course they explain details of hard
drives and solid state drives and etc.
But in this course.
Which I mostly we deal with the high level
abstraction of the files and devices.
We set out a File Manager is
the kind of academic word,
but in a practical sense we
call file system part of the.
Colonel.
And in this level of abstraction,
any device is an array of bytes.
Because the order matters, we say that.
String of bytes, even memory processor,
whatever.
But we said that because memory
and processor are important
devices to execute our programs.
This manager takes control of a.
I mean manage most of the works
dealing with these two devices.
But again,
in the lab 06 I mean the lab for
this week I showed you that even
the CPU and processor can be
treated like a file and you can
see the content of CPU or memory.
And we said that on why we
come up with the name file.
The reason was that I mean historically,
the programs was in, I mean written in some.
Punch cards and book.
They call it file.
I mean after a while they store
it in some storage devices.
And a string of bytes,
so the opcodes becomes string of bytes.
Because of this. A later they built,
I mean largest storage devices.
As a result,
they could store multiple program files.
So as a result, they say that,
uh, if we are going to implement
a file system for a kernel.
It's a good name for any array of bytes.
So not only are a or a string of opcodes,
but also areas of any other
bites from other devices.
So at the high level file system,
any device and also files becomes.
I mean have this same name as fine.
So within this chapter.
Whenever we say file,
you can simply replace it with the device.
Whenever you say device,
you can simply replace it with a file.
And we said that any keyboard
is a read only file.
Monitor is a write only file and etc.
And here is the kind of schematic
view of any device or any files.
Just the I mean.
String of pies.
So now that the file system at high level.
Assumes that any device and
files are as string of points.
As a programmer,
how we can ask the kernel to do some
operation on the files or on the devices?
So these are the list of different
operations that we can ask the
kernel specifically defined system
part of the kernel to do for us.
Create a new device or file.
Open an existing one,
read from the existing one.
Write to an existing one,
etc.
So most of the system calls
are categorized in two main
header files in a kernel called.
The first one is the.
Uh, this one file control.
As you can see here.
And also this one Unix standard. A library.
So these are not library routines.
These are collection of system calls.
As you can see, part of the kernel.
We are not discussing library routines.
These are part of the kernel.
Whenever you want to use any
function inside these header files,
we do system calls.
Although at the time of
programming you don't know the,
I mean you cannot feel the difference,
but there is a huge difference
on there inside the kernel.
And one more thing I see there was a question
in the exam also in the discussion board.
We said that these are the standard by
the Post 6 and you can see these are
introduced as a header files in C programs.
But inside these header files
there might be no C programs.
There might be assembly languages
or or any other languages.
This is just a notation for a standard
operating system and the reason was
just because of the history of Unix,
because Unix was the main operating
system and it was written in the C
programming language and the posts by
the Open Group built up on the Unix.
That's why they choose this notations,
but by no means are they meant that I mean,
any operating system must be
written in C language.
So we start with the first one,
creating a new file or device.
We said that when your program wants
to create a new file or device,
send the request system call to
the kernel by a great function.
In the, uh. The Colonel and the Colonel
returns in number and that number.
We said that doesn't matter
what is the number.
The main thing is that the connection
but that number whenever we read to
that number or write to that number,
we are reading or writing reading
from or writing to that file.
So we don't care what is the
value of file descriptor.
The only thing is that we are
attached to the given file and then
we can read or write to that file.
So we already discussed why
file descriptors are not file.
Identify an exam question was about this.
But in terms of implementation.
Colonel this is by the process that
usually I mean it should be non negative,
so it starts from zero to maximum
number based on the implementation
of different operating systems it
would be 20 up until 20 of until
60 or unlimited, meaning that.
The largest number of integers in a system.
And, uh, there are three of them very
important in the lab of this week.
We discuss about these three numbers
A012. These three numbers,
the first three numbers are standardized for.
By these constants.
Uh, because of the again the history,
because these are the main devices
that I mean at at the first,
the programmers were working with
the keyboard and the monitor.
Basically the standard input
and the standard output.
So we'll discuss about this later.
I mean, next week, uh, I mean also,
in the lab you can work with that,
but for us it's important for now that I
mean these numbers are reserved or assigned
to a specific for specific purposes.
But you can attach it to any for instance
0 because it's a standard input.
You can attach it to any input
devices like keyboard or mouse.
One is the standard output, a kernel.
Or you can attach it to any output devices.
Later, we'll discuss how can as a
programmer we can do this connections.
But for now, it's important that I mean.
Any program that we write this week
or last week or up until I mean even.
Uh. Basically, any system called
to create a file or device.
Uh, normally get a find description greater
than two or greater than equal to three.
And this is the reason,
but later we'll discuss that.
How can you force the kernel to have
these numbers as the file descriptor?
And then wake you when you create
a file or a device you can write
to the hat so the right function.
There are some important things,
uh, when you.
You have to provide your information in a.
Uh, I mean.
Areas of information and this
is the pointer as of type void,
meaning that your array of information
would be integers, floats, characters,
whatever, it doesn't matter. Uh,
as long as they are an array of information,
you can pass them and you ask the do a
system call to write this information.
Into a file that is attached
with this file descriptor.
And you can say that.
What is the capacity of the information
that you want to write to a file?
So this is kind of weird thing.
You can say that the kernel can measure
the length of the buffer itself.
Why we should do that?
This is the responsibility of us.
We have to tell the kernel that, right.
The information from this
buffer with this amount. Why?
Because sometimes you want to just
write a specific part of your buffer,
not the whole buffer. Or sometimes.
Are you want, for instance,
this is one question in the discussion board.
For instance your buffer.
Is of them 100?
But you just have this information hello,
less than 100.
So you can pass 100.
They left a whole buffer.
But the system called just writes
the available information for you.
And then it returns the amount of return
actual written information for you.
So in this case once and it becomes 1234566,
for instance here.
So this is the important thing
about the right system called.
Another thing is that when you write
to a file by the kernel, the kernel
does that with the help of processor.
Because the buffer is in the memory,
so buffer is type of data,
so it's in memory.
How the information in the in
your buffer goes to the device or
any file in the hard disk drive?
Actually it goes through the processor.
So when you do system called
to write hello to a file.
Mail execute, I mean, uh,
execute the transfer of the information
through the processor because processor is
the only unit that can execute something.
However, we said that there is a faster way.
I mean, modern computer systems support
something called memory mapped IO.
Basically they allowed to attach
memory directly to the device.
Or file and then the transfer gonna be
directly from memory to that device and the
processor can be freed and to do other tasks.
We are not going to discuss
about this because we don't care.
The only thing we care is that just doing a
system called write to write the information.
Beneath the system called how the Colonel.
Handles the transport information,
uh, we don't care.
Because we we are working with the high
level of the kernel at the file system.
But this is good thing that you know.
In computer architecture course you may.
Understand, I mean,
they may discuss this topic for you.
And again, one thing is that, uh,
this is your responsibility to, uh. Uh.
To give the number I mean capacity of
the information to the system called.
Why this is important?
Because we know that the character
data type is just one bite.
However, if you have an array
of integers, for instance,
you want to transfer the information 28.
28 as a character for character.
2 character eight is just two point,
so it's simple to just Simply put two,
for instance here.
However, 28 is a number as an integer,
so now you have to say that what is
this size of integer in terms of bytes?
Any idea? How can I know that?
What is the size of an integer in a system?
For instance, if I want to store
28 by write system call, I have to
pass the size of the information.
So behavior says size of a.
That's a correct. Actually,
if you that's the correct answer in a.
Sometimes you may say that
integers are two points.
Sometimes you may say that in my
system is 4 bytes and etc because of
different system may have different.
Uh, sizes for integers.
Uh, we may simply use an operator in
the C programming, which is sizov.
So you can simply say that size
of INT and DC in the C program.
And, uh, the return type is the
number of bytes for and for this
data type in terms of pipe.
So you can simply say that. In here.
You can Simply put signs off it.
If you want to just transfer one integer,
if you want to transfer 10 integers,
you can simply say that 10
multiplied by size of it.
If you want to transfer,
for instance.
Uh, floating numbers such as 2.85.
So you have to simply say that
with the size of floats.
This is an important thing
about the right system called.
And another thing is that if
you read about the A notation,
you can see that the data types
of these arguments or the return
data type of these system calls are
not the normal integer float long.
These are the data types in C program,
but these are not those familiar
data types in C program.
A in C program,
we have something called typedef.
Basically what it does is that it just
introduce an alias or a single new
semantic to an existing data time.
So for instance, size T by typedef
is unsigned long long integer.
Or as size T,
meaning that it's a data type
that wants to distinguish a size.
But it is signed so signed line.
So you see,
I mean in the right system called.
Number of points for the information.
Are size of the information as
of type unsigned long?
So by looking at this semantic you know
that these numbers should be a size.
So it's kind of a semantic,
but in the actual,
uh, I mean sense.
It is just a long unsigned long data type.
And then after you write your information,
you have to close the file
descriptor attached to that file.
Bypassing the file descriptor,
we said that it's not a good thing to leave
the open file descriptor to the files.
Uh, you have to close it at the
end of your program. It's kind of.
I mean you have to clean your mess.
Uh yourself, however.
Uh, if even if you don't do that
after your program finishes.
Uh, your process inside the memory
finishes the kernel grab or return all
the open file descriptors in your program
and then release the file descriptors.
So even if you don't close it,
the kernel does that for you.
But do not do not do that.
It's not a good programming style.
And this is a sample program I'm going
to upload the sample code for this.
A example.
But let's go through this simple example.
Basically we want to create a
file with this name.
New file the text.
So this is the file we have to
call the system called create
from the file control header file.
Passing the name of the file,
there is an additional argument for the
creative said that this is a A permission.
Code for the file.
For instance, who wants to ask
who should access this part?
Who can open the file?
Who can write to the final, etc.
Uh, for this course, uh,
we don't go into details of security
purposes and etc, but you can.
You can look it up yourself,
but this basically means that I want
to open a file for the correct user.
For reading and also for the current
user for the writing W writing, reading.
And these are the for the groups and etc.
But these two are information
important because.
We want to create a file and we
want to open that file that we
created and also you want to write
to that file that we created so.
We need an access to the file
that we own we created ourselves.
And the system called returns a file
descriptor which is of type integer.
And then we have to check the return type.
This is very important
according to the post sex.
The minus one is the only case of an error.
Meaning that if this is minus 5.
This is not an error.
Also, this is not a file descriptor,
because file descriptors are non negative.
What it means is that depending
on the operating system,
for instance Unix may Linux may
interpret minus five in different ways,
or Mac OS may interpret minus
five in different ways.
According to the post,
X - 1 is the error and.
Any valid file descriptors must
be zero or greater than zero.
So after these lines of code,
we can, uh,
if the FT is not minus one,
it means that the file is
already created successfully.
Then we are ready to write to the file.
So we create a buffer B20 character.
And then, uh,
we define a number of points to
pass through the system call.
We define a variable to save their
return number of characters that
is actually written to the file.
These two lines are very important.
You could simply here put your information,
for instance, hello.
Warden etc.
But it still copy is a very handy
way from the strangled edge.
This is from library routine.
This is not part of the kernel.
This from the library routine.
It is very handy function that helps
you to smoothly without any problem.
Copy your information to your buffer.
111 thing is that, uh, for instance,
if you do a string copy it adds the null
character at the end of your string,
meaning that this string
actually finishes at that point.
And this is very important for this is
the part that you have to calculate.
The characters offer information in bytes.
So either you can simply count it
12345 etc, which is not a convenient way.
You can simply use this string left
from again from this library routine.
It automatically calculates
the length of your eyes of
character and returns the number.
Why this is very important?
Because sometimes if you
use Unicode characters,
for instance Arabic characters or
other languages from for instance
Mandarin language and etc.
These are very difficult to count.
The number of bytes because each
unique unique character me,
but do two bites and etc.
So string length is a handy way
to automatically handles in.
The size of the information
that you want to write.
And after that you do a system called.
This is the actual system called.
And the write function is in
the Unix standard header file.
You say that I want to write in this file.
This amount this information this amount.
And then, uh,
after the kernel does that for you,
the kernel returns the number of
points that is actually written.
So again, if you have 20.
Buffer of 20 characters,
but in your buffer you only have two words,
two characters.
So here if you pass the buffer and
then you put for instance 10 or 20
the size of your buffer, then return.
Gonna be only two.
So. Is this checking correct?
Meaning that the number of actual
written voids and the number of
given by to return is not equal.
So we raise an error.
Sometimes it is the correct way of checking.
Sometimes it's not in the lab
of this week's lab lab 06,
you will see a better way
to do the checking and why.
And then if your information
successfully written to the file,
meaning that the number of bytes
written are greater than zero.
Uh, you can simply close the file,
bypassing the file descriptor.
And here is the run of this.
I mean I just compile this program and
here is the file descriptor assigned
to the to that file that we write our
word and then here is the content of
that file that will write for instance.
Hello, fine. So basically, so far we could.
Create a file or device and write
something by using the assigned
file descriptor and then after
we write every information etc.
Finally we can close it.
But the question is that.
When we write to a file,
we want to read the information later.
Also, sometimes you want to
read from the read only devices.
We cannot write to them,
but we can read from them.
Unfortunately, the create system called.
Doesn't allow you to write to a A.
Fight basically the return file
descriptor is limited only to right.
It doesn't allow you to read.
As a result, you cannot use the create
system called for reading farm devices.
Or if you write to some
devices or to some files,
you cannot use the same file
descriptor to read from.
So by create system called we cannot do that.
So the question is that.
Now that we write some information,
how can we read them?
So we expect the kernel provides
us some other system calls in
order to read from the files
or from the read only devices.
So before I continue now we
can have some questions.
So. Let's go with the. Ah.
We have one question. So can you
ask your question right now because
I have to go through the chat box.
OK, we have.
A behavior asks where can find all
the commands of the bash script.
Uh. Actually there is a man
all for the bash script,
so I already put the link for that ash man.
All you have to read that this man all
actually has the complete reference.
So I put it in the.
A chat box.
Hopefully this helps.
So this is the whole command of
Patch and whatever script you
can write in the bash script.
So the next question is, uh?
Layla Layla asks,
is there a way to find the length of
this string from the kernel itself?
Or is calling Australia
from the library team?
Is the only way?
Ah, as far as I know, uh.
I can. I'm not aware of that.
You have to search.
You have to search that.
I mean the system calls.
I mean based on the postage standard.
Is there any system called that gives
us the length of an information or not?
I haven't used it before and.
I the only thing I can say I don't know.
But, uh, yeah, I don't know.
But my guess is that there
is no such system called.
Because kernel is has a lot of
more important tasks to do.
Just I mean compared to just
calculating the length of a?
Formation my guess is that
there is no such system called,
but you can search about that.
So we have tenant.
So turn in yeah,
enable your mic and ask your question.
Oh, always.
So if there's no question you can continue
with a new system called. Which is about a.
Uh, I mean solving the problem
of reading from a file or device
because create cannot do that for us.
Create give us a file descriptor
and that find descriptor is
right only file descriptor.
Even if the device the underlying
device is the read write device or
read only device that create function
when it creates the file descriptor.
That file descriptor is not in a
is not able to read from the file.
So just to make it clear.
Even if you have hard disk drive,
which is a read. Plus right device.
If you create.
Uh, to this device or any file in this
device, they return file descriptor.
This file descriptor cannot read.
That's the limitation of the
crate system called.
So in order to fix this, uh, the.
According to the Post six,
we have a new system called called Open.
So after you write your information into
a file or a device, you can close it.
And then in order to read from that
file or device, you can open it again.
That's this system called.
So before I just go through the open
system call, I just wanted to remind you.
Why we just study the Pawsox
versions of the system calls?
All of you already,
uh?
Read India for the exam.
I think you're all know the answer,
so I put this pool in the chat box.
So please go to this poll.
And then answer your questions.
I mean answer this question.
I'm just going to put the.
Answers here as well.
So why do you study posts
versions of the system calls?
Because we could say that OK, uh,
we go with the Linux and we just study
the system called to Linux or system
called to Windows or System call too.
Top. Why in Academy or in discourse we
just focus our focus is just process?
We don't care. Uh,
what Linux does or what would 2000 etc.
We have 48 students so wake up guys.
We need your vote on this question.
And I believe all of you should know
the answer because you already.
You're already prepared,
I mean. For the exam.
So I'm waiting for you guys.
3D World. 48 students
so let's see the answer.
So. Most of you put the correct answer.
Basically, our program surely runs
on any standard operating system.
That's yes, that's the purpose.
So now you know that if you write a C program
and you use system called by this way,
that we introduced the function etc.
You are sure that any standard
operating system should run your
program without any problem.
Another thing is that almost surely,
and this is also a good answer because.
Uh, we said that only we could
find only one operating system,
which is a standard so far for the Mac OS.
For the Apple Company, Linux,
Bunto or any distribution of the Linux
windows, these are not posted compliant.
So. Uh, even it's still you know how to
write a C program according to post sex.
The big I mean companies who
produce the operating system.
They are not posted compliant and it's still.
You may have some problem,
but at least you can make almost
surely that if there's a problem.
That problem is, I mean not.
Huge problem,
at least.
I mean it's better than just
focusing on one operating system.
OK, so let's continue with, uh, the.
Open File system system called.
So like the create system called open
System called is in the file control header.
Similar to the create,
you have to specify the name of that
file or device that you want to open it.
And the return is an integer,
which is the file descriptor,
non negative number.
If the opening is not successful,
the minus one actually returns again,
negative number is not a sign
of an error minus one is a.
A error is an error.
And then an important.
Argument or parameter of the open
system called is called open flag.
So what are the value of the open flag A?
It could be one of these options.
These are constants.
If you want to know what
is the actual number,
you can go to the Unix standard header file.
These are defined as this constant numbers,
but for us this semantic actually matters.
So if you use this constant,
you're opening your file as a readonly.
As a result, the return file
descriptor can only read.
You cannot use that file
descriptor to write to that file.
You can say that open that
file only for writing.
So basically you can use open system
call for the purpose of crates,
so there is no need for using the crate.
And honestly, after awhile they create
usage of the grid actually become.
How can I say that a?
Deprecated.
So because you can do open
for writing by this option.
But again, when you open the file for
write only flag, they return file
descriptor can be used only for writing.
You cannot use it for reading.
So the most common option is read and write,
because you usually open a file for
reading and writing. So the file
descriptor written by this option.
Is able to do both writing and reading.
So this is a good question that why
when we have the read write option we
have the other two options as well.
So I leave it for you again to
search about that and do why.
What's the reason for these
two different options?
Yeah, I mean read write option can do both.
Why we have separate options
for read only or write only?
Got two beautiful options,
exact meaning that the execute and search.
We are not going to discuss on these options,
but if you are interested you
can go and read about exact.
Distance or not, this is a nice option, why?
Because you can execute,
you can open a file for execution.
We already said that the only program
that can run other programs is the shell.
So you give your opt out of your program.
You run your program with the
help of the shell.
Now the open system call allows you
to open another program and ask the
kernel to execute that file for you.
Now you can understand that how shell
as a application level program does
running our program. So this is nice.
I just put the start here.
Uh, read about this.
We may touch on that later.
But basically again, you write the program a.
Which opens.
Program B and then execute that.
When you want to do that,
you have to open that program
file with this option.
How you can read about that?
At home or on the Internet.
But one important thing here is that
these options must be used only and only.
I mean only one of them can be used.
We cannot use them in
combination of each other,
so only this one or this one or not.
Together this is a constant,
so these are called 5 main open flags.
You cannot use them together.
By using together meaning that
in C program you can use or.
This is the uh or the vertical bar.
This is a bitwise or in C program.
It wise or. So for instance,
0 or one, the result is 1.
So sometimes you can use
multiple options together.
We already saw that when we create
the file with different permissions.
You can order them,
but you cannot or these options
for the open system call.
And here is an example again,
I upload all these examples in
the blackboard. So I created.
I want to open a new file for reading.
So I put this. I put this option,
meaning that not only I want to read
but also I want to write to that file.
And then if they fight,
the script is minus one,
meaning that the system called was
not successful, meaning that the
kernel couldn't open that file.
If. The file descriptor is
a legal file descriptor,
meaning that greater equal than zero.
We can simply say that the file is opened.
Here is the uh.
Flat of the file descriptor and here
is the value of file descriptor.
So if you run this program
so I just simply compile it.
And then run it.
When you run it, I see this error.
So do you know why this error happens?
Basically it goes this line this line, but
seems that the file descriptor is minus one.
It goes to this line and prints
ever happened.
What's the problem?
Why the Colonel couldn't, uh?
Open that file for read or write.
Any guess?
Oh, uh, tenant says that because this
option reads right is minus one.
No, we don't know the
actual value of this flag.
If you want to know this,
we have to go to this library.
But this is a constant we don't know.
We don't care what is the value,
but this is not the reason.
The return value the file
descriptor is minus one.
Why the file descriptor is minus one?
It's a sign that I mean the kernel.
This is the system called to the kernel,
the open.
When the color is not successful,
it returns minus one.
Why?
Why the kernel couldn't
successfully open the file?
And returns minus one.
Any idea?
Great may, some auto Nash
a Ryan actually yeah yes,
that's the correct kind of answer.
Other thing is the open system called
the assumption is that the file
is already there already existed.
So then it only can open an existing file so.
The answer is yes.
What if the file is is not there?
So if it's not there, the kernel
cannot open a file which is not there,
or a device which is not attached
to your computer system.
So how can we do that?
We have to first create the file.
You already know how to create the file.
So using the create system call,
we create the file.
We write our information whatever,
and then we close it.
And then after that we reopen
it by the open system call.
Now we can read that.
So here is the example code for that.
So the first few lines.
It's just for creating that file.
As you can see here, these are the
bitwise orders of different flags.
When we create the file, these
are the permissions for that file.
And then when here in this line,
here in between you can write any
information you want, but just.
Calling the right function.
And then after you write your
information, you can close it.
One thing is that you may.
Be tempted not to close it and
reuse the same file descriptor.
This file descriptor cannot be used
for writing aside for reading because
create system called cannot read.
So you have to close it and then open
it again, and now this file descriptor.
Is able to read. And then, uh,
you check whether there is an error, etc.
So let's see.
Now you can see that it
is successfully created.
It is successfully closed and
also it is successfully opened.
One interesting question here is this.
Define descriptor number.
The value of file descriptor.
In both cases in the create.
And also in the open
system call is both free.
Let's back to the code here.
I said that this file
descriptor up until this line.
Although this file descriptor value is 3.
You cannot use it for reading.
You have to. Open the file and receive
a new file descriptor and then use
that new file descriptor to read.
But we see that the same number is returned.
So you may be tempted, that person is wrong.
So the values are the same. Why not use?
Why not instead of just closing?
We don't close it. We just simply,
uh, use this point descriptor to read
from the file without opening it.
So you can try that at home and see
that the value of file descriptor
is totally different from the
property of the file descriptor.
File descriptor may have the value 3,
but with the property only four right?
File descriptor may have the
value of the same value for you,
but with the property only for reading.
Or file descriptor may have the
same value but with the property
for reading and writing.
Why is that?
Because the number is a reused by
the kernel for different purposes.
So we don't have any control on the value.
So this is a very I mean a detailed issue
that you have to be careful about that.
The property of file descriptor is different
from the value of file descriptor.
So you see that this
process of creating a file.
By the create system call and
then closing it and then open it.
It's kind of up.
I would say stupid way of opening a file
for any file you have to face created,
write your information etc.
What if, uh, you want to do in one step?
You want to say that I want to open
a file and if it is not existed,
create that file for me.
So just to remove that work load off,
creating, closing and then open it again.
So this is added later.
As you can see, this is the
evolution of the operating systems.
There are two options added to
the open system called create an.
Excluding.
Uh, I, I'll explain what excluding means.
But for now, create.
If you pass the create flag
to the open system call,
it says that it checks if the file existed.
It opened that for you.
If it is not, it create that for you.
When you use this flag,
you have to say that what is the
permission of creating that file.
The same in the create system called.
So in this flag you can
simply pass the create flag.
In combination with the other flags,
in order to check if it is not existed,
create a new one for me.
So. A difference with these flags
is that you can use these flags in
combination with those five main options.
Those main fire flag cannot be
combined with each other, but these
two can be combined with those five.
And here is an example.
So here I want to create a file.
Open a file, but I want to say
that if the file is not there,
create that one for me.
So you open the file, read, write.
But if it is not there, create that one.
Because it may not be there
and the open should open system
question created one for you.
You have to specify the
permission of the created fund.
And if you run this example,
so basically I intentionally
remove the existing file.
And then I compile my
program and then run it.
So you see here.
It basically goes here, meaning
that the file descriptor is free.
And it is a successfully created that file
for me and then open it for me because I
removed it first and then called my program.
If you call this program and again and again,
you can see that. This program
creates the file again and again.
This is an issue with this program.
Because. When the file is not there,
you want to create that file and then
open it, but the next time that you want
to run your program, the file is there.
You don't want to re create that file,
you have to stop recreating the new file
again and again inside your program.
So these two calls to your program.
Because it has the create.
Option it recreate that file
for you again and again.
So in order to avoid that.
Uh, you can.
This option actually is added, excluding.
The name of excluding is kind of up
kind of misleading because there's
a huge history behind that name,
but you can simply say that
excluding but the meaning is this.
Excluding is that if?
Let's back to the meaning.
Basically,
here is that if the file is not there,
create that one for me.
But in the file is there do not
create that and then it stop
reading that and raise an error.
So usually this option is used
with this combination just to
avoid recreating an existing file.
So here is an example. So I put.
I want to open a read write
file if it is not there,
create that moment for me.
But if it is there,
do not create that one for me.
Do not re create or replace the already.
So here is a run,
so I intentionally removed the file.
I run my program so the first one
because there is no file there,
it create that file for me and then open
it with the file descriptor value 3.
The second run of my program.
Error happened, basically it goes
with the file descriptor minus one,
meaning that.
It cannot open that file for you
with the create excluding option
because the file is already there.
You would say that it is not open also
for reading or writing, that's correct.
So basically this is kind
of confusing combination.
You wanted to open the file if it is
not there, create a new one for me.
If it is there, just open it.
But these two options.
Uh, the error raised.
And you cannot distinguish between these
two types whether the file is there.
And the open cannot recreate
the new one for you or.
This system called cannot open
the existing file for you.
So you cannot distinguish
between these two errors.
There is another option that you can
combine with the five main flags append.
Append actually, as the name says,
basically open an existing file for you,
but whenever you want to
write from the to the file,
it right information at the end of the file.
So if you try the,
uh open create or create system call,
they create a new file with an
empty information from scratch.
But sometimes.
You want to open an existing file
for reading or writing. For writing,
you can open with the option read write.
Also, or with this option.
IPad which basically means that
whatever you right after this,
using the file descriptor
of the open system called,
you are writing at the end of the file.
If you don't do that, uh,
for instance, if you just simply
let back in the first example.
Let's go through this
example for example here.
Here, if the file is already there,
you open that file for read,
write and then you come here and
you want to write any information.
Or you want to read any information?
Basically you are starting from
the beginning of the file.
Reading or writing.
But what is the option of
pen when you are writing your
writing at the end of the file?
Basically it appends define.
And the next important system
called is the Reed. So now you can.
Open a file for read or write.
You already know how to write information,
how you can read is by
this system called read.
Exactly the same structure as right.
So you see, the only difference
is the name of the system called.
For the write,
you write the information inside the
buffer which is of size and bites,
and this is the actual written information.
For the read you are reading
information from this file descriptor.
Into this information inside the memory.
With this amount of size and this
is the actual amount of bytes
that is read from the file.
For instance,
if you have a file that
has information only hello.
And you say that with me.
1000 bytes and this thousand bytes
goes to a buffer.
For instance,
you already defined a character.
the system called to read reads tries
to read 1000 characters from this
file descriptor into this buffer,
but there's only how many characters
there 1234566 captured their,
so their return number of actual read
actual bites that are red is sex.
And here is the workflow so.
You can use the create just for writing.
But with the open you have a lot
of flexibility. You can open a
file to read and then close it.
You can open a file existing existing file
to write to that file and then close it.
Even if the file doesn't exist,
you can open it by the the create flag
to create a new file and then write to
it and then read through it and etc.
So this depends on the file descriptor.
So if you open.
With the create flag defined descriptor
not only can is able to. Sorry if you.
Open the file with the RW flag.
Or underline. Uh, that are there?
I mean, read and write flag.
Then the file descriptor.
You can use the same file descriptor
for both reading and writing.
And uh, now we can have some questions.
Sub. We have a question.
A conditional statement can solve the issue.
Uhm, Mason, I'm not sure I
understand your question.
Miss Eyemask conditional
statements can solve the issue.
What issue? Oh, go ahead.
You can enable your mic.
Uh, so excuse me, Sir. Yeah, yeah.
So I was asking about the file when
you said we can like when we have
to create every time a new file.
So I was asking if they if condition
like if statement will solve the issue.
And then you answer it, yeah, you mean.
Already answered that yeah yeah, thank you.
So the Harveya asks what happens if.
It doesn't exist and we tried to.
App pad. It wasn't an error.
Behavior asks that what if
we use the append flag?
And, uh, the file is not there.
So it raises an error because the
file is not there, it cannot open it.
To append the file for that,
append information for that.
So yeah, it raises an error. Yeah.
So let's go to. Before I, uh,
let's go to the next topic a few minutes.
So what's the purpose of this
movie reference and this?
Uh, uh, I mean Jack Nicholson in this scene.
There is a famous scene.
This is called a you can
handle the truth scene,
but in this scene there is a nice code,
so I'm going to play this for you
because it's a very famous dialogue
in the history of cinema and also.
In the next few slides,
I'm going to use some topic.
I mean some wording from that.
So let's me let me.
Bring it here. And then here.
So. Are you ready?
I need some feedback from you first.
So Bobby is ready. How about else?
I mean, we have 48 students so.
Guys we are watching movies.
Spawn ready for this class.
Yes. So let's let me start
the movie. So I'm going to.
Open I mean. Answers I think I'm
entitled you want. You want answers.
I think I'm entitled you want the truth.
You can't handle the truth.
Son, we live in a world that
has walls and those walls have
to be guarded by men with guns.
Who's gonna do it?
You you Lieutenant Weinberg?
I have a greater responsibility
than you can possibly fathom.
You weep for Santiago and
you curse the Marines.
You have that luxury.
You had the luxury of
not knowing what I know.
That Santiago's death, while tragic,
probably saved lives and my existence,
while grotesque and incomprehensible to you,
saves lives.
You don't want the truth because deep down
in places you don't talk about at parties,
you want me on that wall.
You need me on that wall.
We use words like honor,
code, loyalty.
We use these words as the backbone
of a life spent defending something.
You use them as a punchline.
I have neither the time nor the
inclination to explain myself to
a man who rises and sleeps under
the blanket of the very freedom
that I provide and then questions
the manner in which I provide it.
I would rather you just said
thank you and went on your way.
Otherwise I suggest you pick
up a weapon and standard post.
Either way, I don't give a damn.
What do you think you are entitled to?
Yeah.
So hope you like that scene,
but the idea is that.
Uh, the idea of you want me on that wall
or you need me on that wall, is that.
Other reason for this?
I mean brilliant system called elsik.
So. We know that we can create a
new file or open an existing one.
Uh, for reading or writing?
So when you open a file for reading
the initial bite that you read
is by assumption the zero point.
And when you read another Boyd,
it goes to the second by
the 3rd byte and etc.
So what is the first system
called for the read you read?
10 bytes,
and then you want to read again so you
start from the first point again or no,
they're reading continues with
the last part that you read.
Or when you want to write
information to an open file.
I initially used are running fine
in the first bite of that file.
After writing process 10 bites,
you want to do another
system called for writing.
That second call to the system
to the right system call.
Is that called right
from the beginning again,
or continuous writing at the end
of the file after the after the
last part that you've read written?
So this is the purpose of
the a concept called offset.
So before I introduce the elsik system call.
Here is the I mean a diagram
to showcase this.
Idea so basically by defined descriptor.
You're attached to a file or device.
But the file descriptor
doesn't move within the file,
it just connects you to the file.
We need some something called Sentinel.
I mean all kind of soldiers.
Or as you can saw, you saw in that movie.
I mean kind of person that keep track
of the position or the current position
of reading or writing to the file.
In the computer science,
it is a famous topic called Sentinel.
Santillan is just soldier that who keeps
track of something in a loop or whatever.
So the same topic actually
going to be used for reading or
writing to a file by the kernel.
For instance,
you can put the Sentinel in the first
of the boy who keeps track of the
bites that are written or read from
the file funded start up the file.
Also,
you can put another Sentinel at the
end of your file just to keep track of
the points from the end of the file,
so this way you have two Sentinel so you
can have a lot of Sentinel defined on a file.
However.
By standard, a standard operating
system has only one Sentinel,
called current offset.
So this is a Sentinel.
And on that wall.
So it's called current offset and
it keeps track of the position
that the read gonna happen or
the right gonna happen.
Initially. First of all,
it only makes sense for open file.
So if the file is not opened.
It doesn't have any current offset,
so all the files in your hard disk
drives doesn't have any offset Sentinel.
When you open it, the Colonel
assigns a Sentinel or a soldier on.
On top of the file descriptor just to keep
track of the current offset to that file.
So it only created at the
time of open or create.
And initially is set to zero,
so whenever you create a
file or you open a file,
it is the correct offset is 0.
Then you start reading or writing each
time that you read or write based on the
number of actual boys that you read or write.
The current offset increments
only move forward.
It's just playing a movie.
So it never go backward,
always forward whether you read
or write it always goes forward.
All this.
Plus plus to offset the current offset.
So you already know that I'm in the
right system coloring read system call.
We have the endpoints,
which is the required number of
parts that we want to read or write,
but the actual system called
returns the actual written bytes,
or the bright red,
so the actual matters.
For instance, if you open a
file or create a file and write
1011 bytes. So assuming that you open.
A file with the file.
And then the file descriptor returns
and then after that you write to the
file with the same file descriptor.
You open it with the side with
the read write option flag.
Uh, for instance, is information of
instance size of 100 in a buffer.
But inside the buffer we have only 11 bytes.
This right system called returns 11.
After doing that it.
The initial sentiment which was zero moves.
Goals are moves.
To this position, the 11th position.
This is the same as a read,
so if you already have information in
a file and then you open it by read,
write or read only flag and then instead
of just write you read you read.
Using the same file descriptor.
The actual, uh, number of points that is red.
Canada, France has 11 and then as a
result is zero moves to the 11th position.
So. Now you know you can understand
what is the purpose of elsik.
What if we need to rewind
reading or writing to a file?
Kind of backward, uh,
I mean traversed the fault.
So this system call is introduced to
give the programmers the opportunity
to change the current offset.
So initially the current offset is
zero by the Creator open system calls.
And then after it's read or write,
it automatically incremented by the kernel.
And now by this system called
you can manipulate the position
of their current offset.
Again, this is in the Unix standard the
same as the read or write system core.
And then you can do the play
with these Sentinel of a file.
That file has the file description FT.
And how can you adjust or move
forward or backward that Sentinel?
By using this argument,
offset offset is just unsigned long number.
And then you have to say from which
place is of the file from the start.
This is the start.
Found the correct position
or from the end of the fire.
So, assuming that the current offset is 11.
You can change the current offset
based on the beginning of the file
based on the current position
or based on the end of the file.
Here is some example.
So the correct position was here.
You can ask the kernel to change
the correct position of the offset.
For instance, to the. 5 today.
Why the 5th part of the file?
So you have to say that in this file
from the beginning of the file,
move five bytes.
So it goes here.
Moves five times up until here,
and this is the current offset.
From now on any read or write
happens at this position.
You can do adjusting by based on the
end of the file. So for instance,
if this was the correct position,
which was the 11th, we can simply
say that changed this position.
Funded bit end of the file.
Five bytes so from the
end it counts five bites.
One it is zero base, actually
1012345. It comes here anyways.
It goes for one either here or here.
So this way you change the current offset
to this position and after that any
read or write happens at that position.
So. And then, uh, you can change
based on the current position.
If the correct position is 11,
you want to just move it five more bytes
without reading or without writing.
You can do that with the reading or writing,
but there are some workload
or overhead for that.
But if you don't need to read or write,
you want just want to move forward.
You can simply use this system called from
the current position five position ahead.
And if you want to move backward,
which is the main advantage
of the L6 system called,
you can simply provide a.
A negative number.
And then, uh, sorry we can't.
Offset here says unsigned long.
I'm not sure I have to check this.
I think I have to check this, but.
I think if you provide.
My negative number.
You can't move backward
from the current position.
But right now I have this.
A problem based on the
definition of this data type.
It should be unsigned long.
They cannot provide negative integers.
I should be. Wrong somewhere?
Anyways. I will I will look it
up and then tell you next week.
So this system called is very useful if
you want to change the position that
you want to read from or write to.
Uh, otherwise, uh.
It starts from the first position of the
file and then I start reading or writing.
So we'll continue this next week, uh?
But up until next week, uh,
if you have any question.
I'm happy to answer that.
You too take care. Take care also,
you do search about that.
I mean, I think we can provide
negative number to DLC.
So we.
He
have a great day guys.
I am going to stop the record.